Imagine you're a product manager at Spotify
focused on improving the listening experience.
You have access to a dataset that contains all Spotify's playback streams.
You are working with the Spotify premium growth team to understand
how much stream quality affects both skipped and song completion rates.
As you start to look at the data,
you notice a couple of phenomena.
The average time in a song when listeners
skip a song tends to be way higher than you expected,
sitting at 46 seconds into the song.
On the flip side, the song completion percentage rate or
meaning the percentage of songs that were listened from end-to-end,
tend to be way higher than you expected sitting
at 92 percent of all songs that were listened to.
Is this real life or just a fantasy?
Before analysis, product managers should understand the granularity,
distribution and the nuances behind their datasets.
Upon further investigation, you realize that
this table is built specifically for music label reporting,
it considers play events as songs that have been played for 30 seconds or more.
You may want to consider looking at
an upstream table that does not have this filter pre applied,
so that you could include songs that have been
played for a less than 30 seconds in your analysis.
Please do note that this scenario is hypothetical in contractual definitions on
what constitutes a song play may differ between label and distribution platform.
You also noticed that there is a Boolean field in the table called Fraud_stream,
which you find out is powered by an algorithm in
the back end that predicts whether or not the stream is fraudulent.
As an example, there may be artists that are
allowing playback bots to boost up their stream counts.
You'll most likely want to filter out
these potentially fraudulent streams from your analysis.
You need to be quick at identifying and understanding the granularity,
distribution and how the data is modeled so that
your analyses are not skewed, biased, or misdirectional.